[00:00:02.56] USB Audio Device:	INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEMusicMusicMusicMusicMusicMusicMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYING (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music)MUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYING (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music)MUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYING (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music) (orchestral music)MUSIC PLAYING (upbeat music)MUSICMUSICMUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYINGMUSICMUSIC Okay, so we're going to go ahead and get started with the first one. (static) PausePause for group workMUSICMUSICBLANKPause for group work Silence.MUSIC (upbeat music)MUSICMUSICmusicMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYINGMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSICMUSIC Testing, there we go. Well, it's good to have her back after a little vacation away. Thank you. Well, welcome to Northmount this morning. It is good to be in the House of the Lord on our second Sunday of Advent. This week, our theme for Advent is peace, and, you know, the more I hear that word, the less I see of it. around our world, right? It is a difficult age we live in. We see war in Gaza and the Middle East and peacefulness is not something that we see easily and it seems elusive. It's interesting though if you look at history that Jesus came into a time of a lot of unrest. Lots of talk of rebellion in his day, and in the middle of all that, angels come to these shepherds and announce to them, we got good news for you. Glory to God in heaven and earth. Peace among whom he favors. Peace isn't everywhere, but we. can certainly find peace in Jesus. Amen? Amen? All right. Yes, we can have peace this morning when Jesus is present. Just before we look at the announcements, why don't you just turn to each other and greet each other in the name of the Lord? And maybe you could say peace to you.MUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYINGMUSIC PLAYING (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music)MUSIC >> How's everybody doing? Bye. Thanks, Cobra. That's so good to be in the house of the Lord. It's so good to see Louisa, and it's Brian, right? Jonathan. I'll get it soon enough. It's so good to see everyone in the presence of the Lord. Amen? God is good? And all the time, Brian, I love the mustache, that's really nice. Sorry? It is well. So this coming Saturday, we're going to have, who can tell me what we have? on Saturday night. Anyone? Not Ray. Anyone besides Ray? What? Well, besides Pastor Greg, of course. Come on, people. It's gonna be the Afghan and Spanish Praise Night. Who's excited about that? I am. Oh, come on. That's all I get? I'm reporting to God. Amen. God is good, and all the time, it's going to be a fun night, and don't forget, the following day, there's going to be-- who can tell me, besides those people sitting there-- who can tell me what's happening next Sunday here during-- service. Oh yeah, Christmas concert, yeah, yes! How come you're not excited as I am? You obviously don't like listening to music or good productions. God is good, and all the time. You know, one of the interesting things about being part of family you get different things at different times. This morning my son asked me why I said it was anticlimactic and I said I would never say that to you and well you said something to mama about something and then I remember what I said was nostalgic. behind ear anti-climactic and I'm like no I would never say that about you, and so sometimes during the Sunday service when we're here, it is important we pay attention, it is important we actually take in those things that are being offered, the news about the church, it is very important. This week, what else is happening? Anyone? It is the Young Adults and Youth End of Year Party on Thursday night. It's gonna be a FIFA tournament. We're playing different kinds of games and we're having fun. If you're young at heart, you're welcome to join us here in the church at 6 p.m. on Thursday. If you play FIFA, you're welcome to come. Tobias, put down your hand. You're not there yet, and it's going to be a fun night, and we hope, as we continue to build our communities, that God will show up and continue to fill this place. Amen? It is in those-- Activities those things we do Some people came here during the week to decorate the church those beautiful trees that you see some people did that that was announced and Please I'm begging I Am begging please participate in this programs Because after a while people do get tired And say, you know what, it's not worth it. Let's not do it anymore, and it might be then that you will need those programs. So whatever it is, just show interest. Say we're praying along with you, Pastor Greg. We're doing, we're with you in spirit, even if you can't be there. Let's show interest. Let's encourage those who are doing it. I mean, Kyle is an intern. He spent hours doing certain things this week. I'm sure I'd probably Prefer doing something else than doing those things But when we show interest when we encourage each other The choir is happening next week. Let's encourage each other and say, you know what? Vic and Vi, thank God for watching you guys are doing. Thank God for all the volunteer hours. If you were to calculate those hours, they're more than what a full-time job that they do. So let's encourage each other. Someone like, hey, some of those goodies we eat during the refreshment time, they put that together. Someone like Mary, who just got married. She got out of the hospital. She walks with Care Connect as well. So I can go on and on and on, and this morning, it's not about rebuking us, but kind of encouraging us to encourage each other. Amen? God is good, and all the time. So, on the 14th. There's going to be a Youth and Young Adults night. On the 16th, the Saturday night, there's going to be what? The Afghan Spanish Springs night, and on the 17th, which is the Sunday in the morning, there's going to be the Christmas Choir concert. Amen? God is good, and all the time. Pastor Greg, over to you. Now that everybody is awake, Chunko's family is going to come and light the Advent candle. OK, so we're going to go ahead and get started. OK, so we're going to go ahead and get started. I don't know. I don't know if that's right. like This is the of Jesus that we brought careful to the coming of Jesus. We remember that he is. Oh, he's. From the. Oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Okay. and he rests on his shoulders and he's named wonderful counselor. Isaiah chapter nine, verses six and seven. from the gospel of John. I need with you. the world is. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not let them be angry. John chapter 14. Let us pray. Gracious God, grant that we may find peace as we prepare for our Lord's birth. May the divisions in ourselves and in our families be peacefully resolved. May there be peace in our cities and in the countries of our world. Help us to seek the path of peace in our lives, and then, give us the courage. to follow them. Lord, let us remember that you only are the giver of lasting peace and that you are always with us. Amen. Let's stand together.MUSIC Faithful, joyful, and triumphant.MUSICMUSIC (singing in foreign language)MUSICMUSIC See.MUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYING (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language)MUSIC PLAYINGMUSICMUSIC (singing) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) Hey. (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music) (upbeat music)MUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYING ♪ Let us love you ♪ ♪ Until all your world ♪ ♪ All of you ♪ ♪ Rejoice ♪ ♪ In your ♪ ♪ Evaluation ♪ ♪ To the only ♪ ♪ In my heart ♪ ♪ Oh, come all ye people of the land of the free ♪ ♪ What fear is my eye but heaven's peace ♪ ♪ 'Tis Christ the Lord, the King of glory ♪MUSICMUSIC ♪ Shall proudly be our ♪MUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYING ♪ And the home of the brave ♪ ♪ Will already be ♪ ♪ Good night, sweet dreams ♪ ♪ The end of the world shall come to thee ♪ (singing) ♪ We come with the cry of love ♪ - Let's pray together. Lord, we are marveling this morning about Emmanuel. about Immanuel. with us. That the God of the universe is actually right here among us. That if we are sensitive to your spirit we can feel your presence right here, and you are a loving God. You fill us with your spirit and give us power. anoint us with your goodness. God I pray a blessing over every person here that you would bring peace into each one's world. Shalom. Peace in their workplace and in their homes and their children, their parents, families in other countries. That you would bring peace. that you would heal broken relationships, that you would dwell among us in power, and love, and joy. God, I just thank you for everyone here. God, I pray for Fredericks and family as they mourn the loss of Marilyn. I pray that at her celebration of life on Tuesday. that you would be very much present. God, I thank you for all of our our shut-ins, I thank you for Tom and Mabel, Ralph and Millie, who have helped us in so many different ways. Thank you for Curtis and Elaine, who continue to phone people in our church. and care for them. For Leslie, for Penny, for Laura Taylor. God, I pray for Nafreda, and Solani, and Mabini, and the rest of their family, and Mario's family. Let's continue to watch over them. God we are so thankful for each person here and God I pray that as we continue to worship that you would keep our eyes open to share this Christmas with the many people that have less than we do. God our hearts break for the many people in this city who cannot afford homes, cannot afford even food. God, through your spirit, draw our attention to the least of us that we can help. Lord, we are also excited about what you're doing among us. Thank you for those of us here that are new. I pray that would enrich them, that you would grow your spirit in each one. God I pray that this morning would not be just about entertainment, but would be about opening our hearts up to what you have for us, to challenge us, to encourage us, to move us into a lost city, a lost world. world. God, thank you for this season that we can draw our attention to what you have done among us. God, go before us, Lord, as we continue to worship in Jesus' name. Amen. It's time for this morning's offering. If the ushers would like to come to the front, you can give to the email address on your screen. If you want to do an e-transfer you can give in the offering plates as well if you prefer or you there's also a machine at the back for debit if you need that as well. Thank you for all of you for your faithfulness and giving. We appreciate what you do.MUSICMUSICMUSIC PLAYINGMusicMUSIC Let's stand together.MUSIC >> Praise God from whom all.MUSICMUSIC He may be seated. Our scripture this morning is from Hebrews chapter 10 verse 11 to 14. For those of you that are new, we've been walking through the Old Testament and we come again this morning, and the writer of Hebrews looks back at that and compares it with Jesus. He says, "Day after day, every priest stands and performs his religious duties. Again and again he offers the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But when this priest had offered for all time, one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God, and since that time, he waits for his enemies to be made his footstool. For by one sacrifice, he, that is Jesus, has made perfect forever those who are being made holy, and I pray that God would help us. understand his word more as we read. Let's sing again before we look into God's word. (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (gentle music) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing)MusicMusicMusicMusicMusicMusicMUSICMUSIC ♪ While we do not ♪ ♪ Be silent ♪ ♪ Let the Lord ♪ ♪ Who is ♪ ♪ Shall give ♪Music ♪ The past is here coming out of her eyes ♪ ♪ And forever will remain ♪ ♪ Oh, for me to watch ♪MUSICMUSICsilence Beautiful. Thank you, Haram. Peace upon the earth. Jesus. As I mentioned earlier, we've been walking through the Old Testament and we've been looking a lot at the sacrifices and we want to look at one specific one today, and it is the sacrifice from which we get the term that we often use these days called a scapegoat. up. I just had one older brother. He was always bigger than me and he could always get the best of me, and as a result whenever we had our little tussles and weren't really fights because I wasn't really able to do a whole lot, he was a couple years older than me, he would always win. However, I remember one day we got into a little tussle and my little brain was wondering how in the world I could get the better of him, and so, there was nobody in there but I ran into my parents' bedroom and he's of course following me and after me, and I quickly, I shut off the light, hit him once. and ran out of the room and said, "Mom, Jeff's hitting me." He got into trouble, and I knew that he probably would because I used him like a scapegoat. Because in our family, I knew that being the oldest, he was supposed to be more responsible, and so he was gonna get it, and I made him a scapegoat that day. It's interesting when you look at our own, our different families, sometimes there is a scapegoat, you know, Mikey did it, you know, it's probably him, he did it, right? We have this one person that everybody loves to blame things on, even if they didn't, weren't even there, doesn't matter. Even in our society, you ever seen a... Politician get in trouble? Well, they will find a scapegoat. They will find somebody to blame things on or a construction mistake. It's probably this person who did it, and we love to look to see who is to blame. A scapegoat. Remember Adam and Eve? things that Adam says when he messes up. He looks up at God and he says, "You know that woman you put here with me? She gave me some fruit from the tree." Scapegoat. Unfortunately, our culture has kind of twisted the meaning of scapegoat. and we miss the fuller meaning of what it's really all about. In fact, the true meaning of the scapegoat is incredible, and it actually goes back to a chapter in your Bibles that many of us have not spent a lot of time on. I want to ask you, how many of you have read Leviticus this year? one person, because he likes the Old Testament.laughs We don't tend to read it, let's admit it. But there are some amazing gems in the Old Testament. I want to encourage you not to neglect the Old Testament in your readings. Because there's amazing stories that teach us and enhance our understanding of... of who Jesus is. What I find interesting in Hebrew literature is the placement of things is incredibly important, and the chapter that we're gonna look at today details the requirements for a day called the Day of Atonement. It's become one of the most celebrated. holidays in the Hebrew calendar. In Israel they would call that day Yom Kippur, which means Day of Atonement, the holiest day of the year, and if you look at this chapter, if you want to turn in your Bibles to Leviticus chapter 16, what we find in Hebrew literature often, you can find it in the Psalms, you can find it in many of the Old Testament passages. A few years ago, we found it in Revelation. We find that Hebrew literature often puts the climax or the main point right in the middle, in the middle of a verse, in the middle of a chapter, in the middle of a book, and so in Revelation, we found that the climax of Revelation The destruction, the victory over the dragon happens right in the middle of Revelation. Well, it's no different here. Leviticus chapter 16, that none of you have read this month. It's right in the middle of Leviticus, and Leviticus is right in the middle of the first chapter. five books of the law. Five books, the middle book, book three, in the middle of it, which should tell you something, that this is maybe the most important part of the Old Testament law. This chapter. So it does us well to look at it carefully to see what is it that we need. know, and why has God put this in here for us? Now we don't have time this morning to read the whole chapter, so I want you to follow carefully while I read. I'm just going to be missing little bits out of it so we can condense it a little bit. I would encourage you for homework to go back over it and read the extended version. with all the replays, and you can actually look at Leviticus 23 for more about this subject. Because it's important. "The Lord said to Moses, 'Bring a young bull for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering.' He is to put on the sacrifice," this is the high priest, "the sacred linen with linen undergarments. These are sacred garments, so he must bathe himself with water before he puts them on. Verse five, take two male goats for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering. Aaron is to offer the bull for his own sin offering to make atonement for himself and his household, Aaron being the high priest. to take the two goats, and then down to verse eight, he is to cast lots for the two goats, one lot for the Lord and the other for the scapegoat. Remember that word? Aaron shall bring the goat whose lot falls to the Lord and sacrifice it for a sin offering. But the goat chosen for lot as the scapegoat shall be presented alive. before the Lord to be used for making atonement, there's that word again, by sending it into the wilderness as a scapegoat. Verse 15. He shall then slaughter the goat for the sin offering for the people and take its blood behind the curtain, that's in the Holy of Holies, and sprinkle it on the atonement cover and in front of it. In this way he will... make atonement for the most holy place because of the uncleanness and rebellion of the Israelites, whatever their sins have been. Verse 18, "Then he shall come out, take some of the bull's blood and some of the goat's blood and put it on all the horns of the altar." Verse 19, "To consecrate it from the uncleanness of the world." of the Israelites. When Aaron has finished, verse 20, making atonement for the most holy place, the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall bring forward the live goat. He is to lay both hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it all the wickedness and rebellion of Israelites, all their sins, and put them on the goat's head. "He shall send the goat away into the wilderness in the care of someone appointed for the task. The goat will carry on itself all their sins to a remote place, and the man shall release it in the wilderness. Then Aaron is to go into the tent of meeting and take off the linen. He shall bathe himself, then he shall come out and sacrifice the burnt... offering for himself, and the burnt offering for the people, to make atonement for himself and for the people. Then before the Lord you will be clean from all your sins." That would have been a breath of fresh air, hey? Verse 34, "This is to be a lasting ordinance for you. Atonement is to be made." once a year for all the sins of the Israelites. So just to kind of summarize what we just read, once a year every person in Israel prepares. They take the day off. It's the Sabbath of all Sabbaths. This is a huge rest day to focus, a day separated to worship God, to focus on holiness. course, with holiness, there is elaborate rituals around cleaning and bathing, putting on new clothes, and so on. The high priest himself has to clean before and after, and unique from all the other sacrifices that were offered that we've talked about a couple of weeks ago, that went on daily through the year, this happens once a year. once a year, and this one has two goats, two goats, as well as bulls and everything else. But the focus is on these two goats. One of these goats is sacrificed and killed, and the other, having had the high priest lay his hands on the head of the goat with confession of all the sins of the people. that they might have forgotten to sacrifice for through the year. He prayed over the goat and this scapegoat is then released into the wilderness. It's quite a picture. In other words, the goat becomes the escape for all the sins of the people. They are freed from all their sins. on the back of the goat who is released into the wilderness, and you can just imagine the excitement of the people. They've been coming and offering sacrifices there all the time, and you can imagine little Johnny who sinned and dad didn't know about it and they forgot to sacrifice for that guy. Or something happened and they ran out of lambs so they couldn't. and go and do the sacrifice, and there was constantly these sins that were building up through the year that they didn't get to. They were too busy. They didn't get to the temple, and those things were not sacrificed for, and so once a year, all the sins are on this goat that heads off into the wilderness, never to be seen. seen again, and then those amazing words, "Then, before the Lord, you will be cleaned from all your sins." Amen? And when we remember the story, I want you to remember several things that are important about this whole day and the events around it. Because they're important for us to understand. As we move out of that shadow towards Jesus. The first thing is we need to pay for our sins. We must pay for sin. There is always a price to pay for sin. You're speeding, you're going to get a ticket. You kill somebody, there is consequences. There is always, even in our society, there is consequence for doing something wrong. Even if you don't get caught, or you think. So we need to pay for our sins. Or, as it is described here, it's called atonement. Which is reconciliation between God the Creator and sinful humanity, and this is at the heart of all the Old Testament law, this reconciliation, this coming together between sinful man and a holy God, and they cannot meet. Holiness and sin cannot be in the same place, and so there has to be this atonement to make things right. But you can just see in all the elaboration. that we have a God who yearns to be close to us. He wants us to come into his presence, and we read throughout these scriptures, particularly in the Old Testament, how sobering this feeling was with the people, that they could be cut off from God if they did not live right. They could be destroyed, and this ritual drama performed by the high priest, along with all the severe warnings that went around that, served to teach Israel about the need to clean, to cleanse from sin. Sin was so serious in the presence of a holy God. that only the High Priest was even allowed into the presence of God in this holy place in the tabernacle? In fact, by the time of Jesus' day, they were so fearful of being killed, even the High Priest and the Holy of Holies, you know what they used to do? They would tie a rope around his ankle. ankle with a bell on it, and so he would kind of tiptoe into the holy of holies. This is the presence of God where anybody could be killed if they were not clean, right? And he's tiptoeing in there, right? Or I should use this for effect. There's a bell on his leg, right? And he's going in. That bell stopped ringing. They thought, "Uh-oh, there's trouble. He's dead." Right? So then if they had the rope on him, they didn't have to go in because if they went in to take him out, they'd get killed. So that they could pull him out. Now I don't know if that ever happened, if he died in there. But that was the tradition of how seriously they took this presence of God that could destroy people. We must pay for our sin, because sin is a very serious thing. Secondly, we need blood for our sins. We don't get this very well in our modern day, and I've talked about this a few times. But in the mystery of God, right from the beginning, God has been teaching us... that without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness, and so this was demonstrated in their daily sacrifice. It was visualized before them every day, as they saw the priest sacrificing over and over again, and the killing went on and on, and blood was spilt to pay for their sins. There wasn't an Israel. alive who did not know this, that without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness, and then third, we need a high priest. What the Day of Atonement taught the people was that only the high priest could enter the Holy of Holies, and even then only once a year, and it became ingrained. in the people that they desperately needed a mediator. God's holiness was so out there and so perfect that they could not approach him, and they needed a mediator. We're used to mediators in our day, aren't we? It's usually when it comes to bargaining with unions, isn't it? Or something like that. Or kids bargaining with the parents. and boy is it ever good if you've got a mediator. Because often the two sides just cannot come together, and this mediator who has the skill can actually bring the two sides together and make a way, and so we need a mediator between this holy God and us, and in our case, you cannot simply walk into God's presence or you will die. Because they are not compatible. So we need a mediator, and the high priest was the only human being allowed to take this role. Then fourth, we need atonement. Ever since the Garden of Eden. and man sinning, and the Madam and Eve were pushed out of the garden because of their sin. But here's the thing, right from the first sin, God was longing to bring them back into his presence. God has always through history been going after you. going after me. The reason why we are even here this morning is 'cause God is after you. God wants you to be in a close relationship with him because he loves you, and God longs to have a close relationship with him, and so God makes this way of atonement. You could just, you could maybe parse it out as "at one" meant. Being one with God, and atonement brings us into a state where we are at one with God again. Then fine, we'd need a... substitute. See, one of the problems with sin is if we were truly going to pay the price for our sin, we'd all be dead. Be dead. But God makes a way in providing a substitute so that we don't have to die. Isn't that great? Amen? And one of the day that Israel longed for and looked forward to was the scapegoat where all of their sins would be cast on that goat and they would be led out into the wilderness. One goat is sacrificed to the Lord for their sin and the other is sent out carrying all of Israel's sin into the wilderness, and just incidentally, when the goat was sent out into the wilderness, that was kind of symbolic of actually sending it into another world, that it would actually be sent where it could be seen no more, and it was actually led away by somebody to make sure it never came back. The wilderness symbolized a... a place totally outside of their world, and all of our sins were released by this vicarious substitute. So not only does our sin get transferred and removed through this unblemished sacrifice, but it also puts us back in this clean relationship with God. I can imagine the rejoicing and the partying in Israel at the moment when that ceremony was done and all their sin is released and They felt clean again And then finally we need Jesus We need Jesus see one of the problems with the Day of Atonement Was that it was done? every year, and if you were an old person, you had seen this day of atonement being practiced year after year after year, and you saw the sins building up and then sacrifice, and again it went on, and I'm sure there was this yearning in them. Couldn't there be something more? could take this away, and one of the beauties of Christmas, the first Advent, is that Jesus comes as the suffering servant, the substitute, the scapegoat, to bear on himself God's holy and just wrath for our sin. and transgressions, and if you read the story in Isaiah 53, we find these brutal words described about the way Jesus had to go through this. He says that he was a servant that was despised, rejected, acquainted with grief and sorrows. smitten, stricken, afflicted, wounded, bruised, bearing chastisement, lashed with stripes. That tells you something about the holiness of God and what Jesus had to bear on our behalf, and aside from the rejection of the servant by his own people. people. The primary subject of all that action is his father. The afflicting, the wounding, the striking was because of his father's holiness. There's a lot of mystery in that picture, and yet Isaiah also makes it clear that such suffering was the substitute for our sin, and he says in 53 verse 4 and 5, he says, "He has borne our griefs. He was wounded for our transgressions, and though we've all gone astray, the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us." our iniquity and so this whole sacrificial system brings to light all of the teaching about this servant suffering that the Lord has made his soul an offering for sin. What's interesting about Jesus though is that step further because not only is Jesus the scapegoat and the sacrificial lamb, but he's also our priest. He's the one actually doing it, is our priest, our mediator. In fact, Hebrews tells us that he is forever mediating for us in heaven. So that we don't have to go through this once a year mediation. with a high priest. Because he's a forever high priest in heaven. Amen? You don't have to wait for a year down the road. Every day Jesus is standing in our place. Now I know some of us in our modern skepticism are saying, Why all this gory stuff? I mean, if this is a loving God, I mean, why all the blood and the killing? For somebody who doesn't eat meat, it would even be harder. But let me draw our attention to something else. happens every day in the form of atonement. In other words, somebody else's life being given for yours. Did you know that every single thing you eat happens because either a plant is killed, an animal is killed, something has to die. you can live. There isn't anybody here this morning that isn't here without having something been killed to get you here. Think about that for a minute. We are alive because something or someone gave their life for us, just in the physical realm. It's a little hypocritical to make this caricature of the cross as this needlessly cruel thing. Some of us, we think it's horrific enough to kill an animal, but the Son of God? Just remember that Jesus willingly embraced that death. for us. He recognized death as a part of life. He went to the cross with anticipation of something good, and there's many other things we could think of. You know what? Even in your own body. Okay, this is a little gross, but some of the youth might like this. an infection. There's a stuff called pus. Yeah. That pus is helping you live. That's dead cells that have died to fight the infection so that you can live. So even in your own body. Atonement is happening. We have amazing God, you know, and it's interesting even in the movies we watch and the things we do. We love a story where somebody gives their life sacrificially for somebody else. Darth Vader gives his life for his son. Aslan dies. as a sacrifice for the wicked witch, and on it goes. There is something that stirs us when we watch somebody willing to die for another. Why? Because our soul was formed by our Creator, who sacrificed himself for us. willingly, and you can deny atonement with your head sometimes, but you can't fool your heart, and you know you need a savior to deal with sin, and the beauty of Christmas is not the temporary peace that might happen sometimes when the wars sputter out for a while. Peace is something that God brings into the hearts of men and women through a scapegoat, through Jesus, and I can imagine the excitement as John the Baptist says, "Behold, the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the whole world." radical statement in the Jordan River at that time. Because all the Jews would have been saying, "Excuse me, the whole world?" Because he thought, they thought the Messiah is coming just for the Jews, and John says, "No, no, this land takes away the sin of the whole world, of us, amen?" And peace on earth is still, through Jesus, covering us with his blood, being taken out, dying on a cross, so that we could live. I want to encourage you this Christmas, don't keep that good news to yourself. You can use me as a scapegoat to tell other people, it's okay. My pastor said I got us all. Here it goes. We have an amazing God. Amen. Let's stand in closing and let's sing together as Haram leads us.BLANKMUSICMUSIC (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language) (singing in foreign language)MUSICMUSICMUSIC Bye.MUSICMUSICMUSICMUSICMUSIC ♪ And I need it to be ♪ ♪ For the love ♪ ♪ To feel my own passion ♪ ♪ To feel ♪ ♪ The freedom ♪ ♪ To feel the freedom ♪ ♪ Oh, Christ the Lord, hear my prayer ♪ ♪ Let the good life begin ♪ ♪ Here with my heart ♪ ♪ Begin again ♪Music Maybe you've never given Jesus your heart fully. I want to encourage you, even though maybe you've come to church many times, if you've never... giving your heart to Jesus. Maybe today is the day you need to do that. I want to encourage you, if you can, talk to me afterwards. We can sort it out. Because God, remember, wants you as his son and daughter. He wants you to be in his presence, and now, be people of peace. Let peace live in you. your heart and share the peace of Christ with all you meet. Share peace by acting out of compassion and not fear. Share peace by listening to all sides of the story. Share peace by praying for our world. In this Advent season we need to see, feel, and share peace, and as you go out into the wild. wonder of God's creation. Share peace and hope with those you meet. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. You may be seated. (gentle music) (pages flipping)MUSICMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSIC PLAYINGMusicMusicMusicMUSICMUSICMUSIC MusicBugle plays ReveilleSilenceINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Okay.INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE (indistinct)INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Testing. Testing Again. Hello. asasa. This is a very long test. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. You may be seated. (gentle music) (pages flipping)MUSICMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSIC PLAYINGMusicMusicMusicMUSICMUSICMUSIC MusicBugle plays ReveilleSilenceINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Okay.INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE (indistinct)INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Testing. Testing Again. Hello. asasa. This is a very long test. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. You may be seated. (gentle music) (pages flipping)MUSICMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSIC PLAYINGMusicMusicMusicMUSICMUSICMUSIC MusicBugle plays ReveilleSilenceINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Okay.INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE (indistinct)INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Testing. Testing Again. Hello. asasa. This is a very long test. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. You may be seated. (gentle music) (pages flipping)MUSICMUSICMUSIC (upbeat music)MUSIC PLAYINGMusicMusicMusicMUSICMUSICMUSIC MusicBugle plays ReveilleSilenceINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Okay.INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE (indistinct)INAUDIBLEINAUDIBLEINAUDIBLE Testing. Testing Again. Hello. asasa. This is a very long test. Testing. Testing 123. Hello. Another Test. Something new. Another new Entry
Testing.
Testing